JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight:
President-elect Donald Trump
gets his transition
moving, meeting with figures
like Henry Kissinger
and the first foreign leader
since the election.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Also ahead
this Thursday:
the major pitfalls of the EB-5
program, why
hopeful immigrants exchanging
foreign investments
for U.S. citizenship are leaving
empty-handed.
SHEHRYAR IQBAL, Dubai: It hurts
me, because
my mom and dad were very young
when they passed
away, and it was my job to
protect the money
that they had left us.
And that -- it really breaks my
heart.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And how life as
an outsider
helps Trevor Noah look through
the lens of
others.
The new late-night TV host opens
up to Jeffrey
Brown about his path to
political comedy.
TREVOR NOAH, Host, "The Daily
Show": When
you are not under the impression
that the
world is yours, you have to
figure out how
to listen to the world that you
are in.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All that and
more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
HARI SREENIVASAN: The Trump
transition operated
on two fronts today, in New York
and Washington.
The president-elect received a
parade of potential
Cabinet officers, while his
running mate courted
Congress.
John Yang begins our coverage.
JOHN YANG: One after another,
they made the
pilgrimage to Trump Tower for
audiences with
the president-elect.
Some were familiar faces from
the campaign,
former New York Mayor Rudy
Giuliani and Alabama
Senator Jeff Sessions.
Others have also been mentioned
as possible
members of the Trump
administration, House
Financial Services Chairman Jeb
Hensarling,
FedEx chairman Fred Smith, and
governors Rick
Scott or Florida and Nikki Haley
of South
Carolina.
Transition officials said
there's no arbitrary
timeline for personnel
announcements.
KELLYANNE CONWAY, Trump Campaign
Manager:
I think, basically, before or
right after
Thanksgiving is probably more
appropriate
in terms of -- we looked at
where past administrations
have been also, and we feel like
we're right
on target, right on time for all
of that.
JOHN YANG: President-elect Trump
talked foreign
policy with former Secretary of
State Henry
Kissinger.
Today, he met with Japanese
Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe, Mr. Trump's first
face-to-face
meeting with a world leader
since the election.
The incoming administration has
launched its
so-called landing teams to work
with current
administration officials across
the federal
government.
All members of those teams and
anyone being
vetted for an administration job
have to give
up lobbying if they're a
registered lobbyist.
And they have to agree to a
five-year lobbying
ban after leaving government
service.
Today, vice president-elect
Pence was on Capitol
Hill, meeting with Senate
Majority Leader
Mitch McConnell, and addressing
the House
Republican Conference Mr. Pence
once led.
MIKE PENCE (R), Vice
President-Elect: Very
humbling to be back among my
former colleagues
who are excited about moving the
Trump agenda
forward in the coming Congress,
and I'm just
so grateful, so grateful for the
warm hospitality.
JOHN YANG: Mr. Pence also sat
down with House
Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi,
and with Chuck
Schumer, the incoming Senate
minority leader.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Former House
Speaker Newt
Gingrich took himself out of the
running for
a Trump Cabinet post today.
He told The Washington Post he
wants the freedom
to -- quote -- "network across
the whole system."
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news: President
Obama had some pointed advice
for his successor
on dealing with Russia.
He spoke in Berlin after meeting
with German
Chancellor Angela Merkel and
said he hopes
Mr. Trump confronts the Kremlin
when it goes
too far.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
My hope is, is that he does not
simply take
a realpolitik approach and
suggest that, if
we just cut some deals with
Russia, even if
it hurts people or even if it
violates international
norms, we just do whatever is
convenient at
the time.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Merkel said she's
keeping an
open mind on working with a
Trump administration.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Hillary
Clinton has reemerged
in public, urging supporters to
keep fighting.
She spoke last night at a
Washington gala
for the Children's Defense Fund.
Clinton acknowledged she's had
moments when
she wanted to curl up and never
leave the
house again after her stunning
loss.
But she said this is no time to
give in.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Former U.S. Secretary
of State: I know that, over the
past week,
a lot of people have asked
themselves whether
America is the country we
thought it was.
But please listen to me when I
say this: America
is worth it.
Our children are worth it.
Believe in our country, fight
for our values,
and never, ever give up.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Clinton didn't
mention president-elect
Trump by name.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Republican
leaders in the U.S.
House of Representatives called
today for
a bill to fund the government
into March.
They said that would give the
incoming Trump
administration time to weigh in
on future
spending priorities.
Meanwhile, Nancy Pelosi now
faces a challenge
to keep her job as House
minority leader.
Ohio Democrat Tim Ryan announced
today that
he will run against Pelosi.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The U.S.
surgeon general
is out with a call to action on
substance
abuse.
Dr. Vivek Murthy issued a
sweeping report
today.
Among the findings, 78 Americans
die every
day from overdosing on opioids.
A record 47,000 died from drug
overdoses of
all kinds in 2014.
And more than 27 million people
reported using
illegal drugs or misusing
prescription drugs
last year.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In economic news,
the head
of the Federal Reserve Board
says the economic
outlook is improving.
That's likely to pave the way
for another
interest rate hike next month.
Janet Yellen gave her
semi-annual report to
Congress today.
She acknowledged the Fed's view
could change,
depending on what the Trump
administration
does.
JANET YELLEN, Federal Reserve
Chair: When
there's greater clarity about
the economic
policies that might be put into
effect, the
committee will have to factor
those assessments
of their impacts on employment
and inflation
and perhaps adjust our outlook
depending on
what happens.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Yellen also said
she has no
intention of stepping down
before her term
ends in January of 2018.
HARI SREENIVASAN: J.P. Morgan
Chase will pay
$264 million to settle federal
charges that
it bribed its way into banking
deals with
China.
The bank was accused of hiring
relatives of
well-connected Chinese
officials, in a bid
to secure business.
Several other banks are under a
similar investigation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Wall Street
managed modest
gains today.
The Dow Jones industrial average
gained 35
points to close near 18904.
The Nasdaq rose 39, and the S&P
500 added
10.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Astronaut
Peggy Whitson
is now the oldest woman in space
at the age
of 56.
The biochemist was on a Russian
rocket that
blasted off from Kazakstan today
on a mission
to the International Space
Station.
Whitson will celebrate her 57
birthday in
space next February.
John Glenn remains the oldest
human to go
into space.
He flew on a space shuttle at
age 77.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And the man who
made Archer
Daniels Midland into a food
industry giant
has died.
Dwayne Andreas passed away
Wednesday.
He took over ADM in 1970 and
built a dominant
position in everything from
ethanol to corn
syrup.
He stepped down in 1997, after a
price-fixing
scandal.
ADM was also a major underwriter
of the "NewsHour"
for years.
Dwayne Andreas was 98 years old.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Still to come
on the "NewsHour":
president-elect Trump's first
meeting with
a foreign leader; concerns that
a climate
change denier is shaping the
president-elect's
stance on the environment;
Making Sense of
a program that lets foreign
investors immigrate
to the U.S.; and much more.
JUDY WOODRUFF: President-elect
Trump has spoken
by phone to scores of world
leaders.
Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe has met
with him in person in New York
this evening,
following concern in his country
over statements
candidate Trump made during the
campaign.
In fact, questions have been
raised in many
quarters about Trump's foreign
policy, as
he decides who his main
appointments in that
arena will be.
We turn now to Michael
Pillsbury, who has
been advising the Trump
transition team.
He has served in past Republican
administrations
in the Defense Department and on
the National
Security Council staff.
And David Rothkopf, he is the
CEO and editor
of "Foreign Policy" magazine and
the author
of "National Insecurity:
American Leadership
in An Age of Fear."
And we welcome both of you to
the program.
Michael Pillsbury, let me start
with you and
ask you about this visit with
the Japanese
prime minister, the meeting late
this afternoon
with Donald Trump.
How typical is it for a foreign
head of government
to meet with someone who's been
elected president,
but hasn't taken office yet?
MICHAEL PILLSBURY, Former U.S.
Assistant Undersecretary
of Defense: It's common.
This is basically a Japanese
initiative.
It's a very good idea.
It lets the Japanese sort of get
the feel
of Mr. Trump, present some of
their concerns
from the campaign rhetoric.
And the fact that Mr. Abe has
already said
that it's an honor for him to be
the first
foreign leader in some sense
sets up a competitive
dynamic.
There's been some approaches
already now already
from Prime Minister Modi of
India and other
countries that they would like
to have a chance
to talk to the president-elect
as well.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But you're saying
it's common,
this is something that is
normally done?
MICHAEL PILLSBURY: I don't the
statistics.
The key thing is, the
president-elect can't
act.
He can't conduct foreign policy,
but he can
certainly educate himself and
have a chance
to meet people, so that, after
he's president,
it won't be the first time, it
won't meeting
of two strangers.
JUDY WOODRUFF: David Rothkopf,
what about
that?
How accustomed are we, should we
be, to a
president-elect having these
kinds of meetings?
DAVID ROTHKOPF, CEO and Editor,
"Foreign Policy":
Well, these kind of things
happen.
President Obama met with foreign
leaders before
he took office.
I think what president-elect
Trump needs to
think about a little bit is that
his actions
have foreign policy consequences
whether or
not he's meeting with foreign
leaders, so
that, for example, if he sends
out a tweet
trying to intimidate or berate
The New York
Times, foreign leaders who might
be wanting
to do that themselves start
saying, oh, there
is a change in a U.S. policy.
Or if he cozies up to Russia, or
if he appoints
an ethno-nationalist as his
primary adviser,
people say, oh, perhaps
ethno-nationalism
is in season at the White House.
Everything is being watched.
Everything he does has a foreign
policy consequence.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let me turn
back to you,
Michael Pillsbury, because there
has been
a lot made about not just
Stephen Bannon being
named as a top counselor to the
president
in the White House, but about
what Donald
Trump said during the campaign.
How much concern is there out
there on the
part of foreign leaders about
him?
MICHAEL PILLSBURY: Well, it's
hard to be sure
of that, because he's not
president yet.
And so things that foreign
leaders say can
be for effect.
I can take you back to the
Reagan administration.
I was on President Reagan's
transition team.
And we had similar issues.
People wanted to get in touch to
know, what
is the true policy going to be/
And transition teams and someone
like me,
especially an adviser on the
outside, don't
have any authority.
President Reagan didn't really
get to his
main national security strategy
until after
one year in office.
Some of these key documents,
national security
decision, Directive 32 on the
Soviet Union,
took one year to hash out.
So we're really in a very early
phase, where,
as David says, yes, the tweets
are read and
people are watching, but these
are not official
acts.
There's no team of secretary of
state and
defense actually meeting to
hammer things
out yet.
We're way early to see what the
Trump administration
role in history is going to be.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, David
Rothkopf, it sounds
like Michael Pillsbury is saying
it's just
too early to get concerned about
any of this
until he takes office and starts
making decisions.
DAVID ROTHKOPF: Well, I don't
know if it's
too early.
Yesterday, you had the head of
the National
Security Agency saying that
Russia had taken
an active role in trying to tip
the scales
of this election towards Trump.
And, indeed, that's what
happened.
Then Trump got on the phone with
Russia, talked
to Putin, waxed rhapsodic about
a letter from
Putin.
A day later, Putin launches a
major offensive
in Syria.
Some of the people who Trump is
considering
are people who are fairly cozy
with the Russians,
including General Mike Flynn.
And so all of a sudden people
are starting
to put pieces together.
Michael's right it takes time
for a foreign
policy legacy to emerge, but,
for -- first
impressions matter.
And right now, Donald Trump is
making some
pretty disturbing first
impressions.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, I want to
come back on
the specifics of that.
But, Michael, go ahead.
MICHAEL PILLSBURY: I don't agree
at all on...
JUDY WOODRUFF: Go ahead.
MICHAEL PILLSBURY: Well, a new
president from
whatever party deserves a bit of
a cease-fire
in my view.
The election is over.
Politics is going to continue.
There will be harsh criticism of
Donald Trump,
I'm sure, for the next four
years.
One of my favorite expressions
in Washington
is something George Shultz once
said, I think
on the "PBS NewsHour."
He said -- quote -- "Nothing
ever gets settled
in this town."
So, conflicts continue.
We can criticize Mike Flynn, but
he's not
been named yet as the national
security adviser.
I personally hope he is.
I ready General Mike Flynn's
book on the war
on terror.
It's quite good.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But what about...
MICHAEL PILLSBURY: He's not
speaking right
now.
General Flynn, going on TV, for
example, he
doesn't speak as a government
official.
This was an election campaign
which is now
over, and there needs to be a
kind of break
in this harsh daily criticism of
Mr. Trump
and his team.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, David
Rothkopf, I hear
you saying that there are
signals being sent
by the conversation that Donald
Trump had
with Vladimir Putin, for
example.
DAVID ROTHKOPF: Of course.
And there are signals that are
being sent
with tweets intimidating The
Times, and there
are signals being sent with who
he's evaluating
for key offices and who might be
the people
that he chooses to appoint to
those offices.
And, you know, yes, it would be
nice, ideally,
if we could set aside the
politics for a moment,
but some of these things are not
political.
When you go and take somebody
who's run a
publication that's a white
supremacist, misogynist
publication and appoint him
right next door
to the president in the White
House, that
sends a message, particularly in
Europe right
now, where there's a rising tide
of the right.
One of those people who he's
appointed, Steve
Bannon, has already sent a
message to the
Le Pen team who is going to
contend for the
presidency of France next year,
extreme right-wingers.
And so he's saying, look, we
will help you,
we're part of this rising tide
of the right.
So, actions are being taken,
choices are being
made, and the consequences are
serious.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we should say
that the
Breitbart News organization
argues against
the characterization that it's
white supremacist.
But, setting that aside, Michael
Pillsbury,
what about this argument that,
already, by
his statements, even saying I
had a good conversation
with Vladimir Putin, and the
next day Russia
launches yet another strike,
punishing strike
in Syria, that those are not
things that we
should be concerned about, at
the very least?
MICHAEL PILLSBURY: I think the
key thing is
a White House fact sheet that
President Obama
issued and President Obama's own
statements
that the Obama administration
has tried very
hard to prepare memos for every
government
department for the last few
months suggesting
what to do, descriptions of what
has happened
so far.
But those will not be turned
over until Mr.
Trump's transition teams arrive
in the buildings.
Now, the problem we have right
now is that
the transition teams have not
been sent.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And they did
arrive today.
Some of them did arrive today.
MICHAEL PILLSBURY: And this is a
setback for
the past week or so, but it's
easy to remedy
this.
And now the dialogue begins.
So, things like David is
concerned about,
they will begin to sort of get
hold of what's
been going on in various foreign
policy and
defense areas quite soon.
We're in this very, very
premature first week
now, as I appeal again to David,
give people
a break.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We are just
beginning to watch,
and this is the first of many,
many conversations
we are going to be having on
this.
Michael Pillsbury, David
Rothkopf, we thank
you both.
DAVID ROTHKOPF: Pleasure.
HARI SREENIVASAN: More than 200
nations reaffirmed
their commitment to the Paris
climate accord
today during a U.N. summit in
Morocco.
The show of support comes amidst
worries that
U.S. president-elect Donald
Trump will pull
out of the deal.
It also comes as dozens of
wildfires continue
to burn across the Southeast
region of this
country, more than 30 that are
still uncontained
in North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia,
Tennessee, Alabama, and
Kentucky.
And climate change could be one
factor that
may contribute to the drought
conditions feeding
them.
William Brangham has a closer
look at how
a Trump administration might
change America's
course on climate change.
DONALD TRUMP (R),
President-Elect: We're going
to cancel the Paris climate
agreement.
Department of Environmental
Protection, we're
going to get rid of it in almost
every form.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Throughout the
long campaign,
Donald Trump made clear he wants
a sharp turnabout
in U.S. environmental policy.
DONALD TRUMP: Oh, coal country,
what they
have done.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: He repeatedly
pledged to
undo the Obama administration's
Clean Power
Plan, an aggressive effort to
cut carbon emissions
from power plants.
DONALD TRUMP: Energy is under
siege by the
Obama administration, under
absolute siege.
The EPA, Environmental
Protection Agency,
is killing these energy
companies.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Since winning
the election,
the president-elect has tapped
climate change
skeptic Myron Ebell to head the
EPA transition.
Trump has repeatedly expressed
his own skepticism
about climate change, like in
this 2012 tweet,
when he said: "The concept of
global warming
was created by and for the
Chinese in order
to make U.S. manufacturing
noncompetitive."
Two years later, he wrote:
"Global warming
is an expensive hoax."
Meanwhile, the Paris climate
accords officially
took effect on November 4.
They're an agreement among
dozens of nations
all aimed at limiting worldwide
warming to
just an additional 2 degrees
Celsius.
That's a little over 3.5 degrees
Fahrenheit.
But doubts about what
president-elect Trump
will do are hanging over this
week's U.N.
climate conference in Morocco.
MAN: We will not be silenced.
The United States will shred the
document.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: It would take
four years
to withdraw from the Paris
accords, but there
are no enforcement mechanisms,
so the new
Trump administration could
simply ignore the
U.S.' commitments.
In Morocco yesterday, Secretary
of State John
Kerry warned against taking that
step.
He said climate change shouldn't
be a partisan
issue.
JOHN KERRY, U.S. Secretary of
State: No one
has a right to make decisions
that affect
billions of people based on
solely ideology.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: At the same
time, 365 American
companies have written to the
president-elect
imploring him to uphold the
Paris accords
and warning -- quote -- "Failure
to build
a low-carbon economy puts
American prosperity
at risk."
So, what would environmental
policy actually
look like under a Trump
administration?
David Roberts covers this for
Vox.
He is a writer and journalist
who has long
reported on the need for
tackling climate
change.
He joins me now from Portland.
David Roberts, let's start off
talking about
the man who's going to help the
Trump administration
shape energy policy.
Who is Myron Ebell and what does
he believe?
DAVID ROBERTS, Vox: Myron Ebell
is the director
of the Climate Change Program at
the Competitive
Enterprise Institute, which is a
think tank
in Washington, D.C.
His belief is that climate
change is a hoax
or possibly no big deal,
happening and no
big deal, or possibly happening
and good for
us, depending on which day you
ask him, so
certain we don't need any public
policy to
help counter it.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, in some
ways, he seems
like an ideological fit as far
as what we
understand Donald Trump's
policies to believe
and positions?
DAVID ROBERTS: That's right.
I think it's a very clear signal
from the
Trump camp that he wasn't
kidding in what
he said about climate change on
the trail.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Let's talk a
little bit
about some of the things the
Trump administration
might do.
With regards to the Paris
accords -- this
is, for those who are following
along, a whole
group of nations have binded
together to say,
we're going to pledge to cut
emissions going
forward.
If the Trump administration
wanted to, can
they just walk back from those
commitments?
Can they just walk away from the
accords themselves?
DAVID ROBERTS: Absolutely.
The whole premise of the Paris
agreement is
that all the commitments from
all the countries
involved are voluntary.
That was one of the reasons that
it was a
breakthrough is that making
those commitments
voluntary sort of opened people,
opened countries
up and made them a little bit
more ambitious.
But the consequence of them
being voluntary
is that Trump can absolutely
walk away.
It will take him several years
to formally
get the U.S. out of the accord,
but nothing
is stopping him from just
stating that he's
not going to pursue the targets
and not going
to do anything to attempt to
meet our commitments
there.
And there is no legal mechanism
that can stop
him.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Same question
with regards
to domestic policy.
What is a Trump administration
energy policy,
what is that going to look like?
DAVID ROBERTS: Well, I think the
first priority
is going to be to dismantle the
Obama environmental
legacy.
That will be the priority.
So, for instance, the Clean
Power Plan, which
is aimed at power plants, will
be either rolled
back or delayed or slow-walked
or reversed
entirely, depending on what road
they take.
But I think the initial efforts
are all going
to be designed to dismantle
everything that
Obama has done in this area over
the last
eight years.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: It's hard to
know if voters
picked Trump because of his
energy policy,
but I think it's undeniable that
there are
a lot of people in the country,
especially
in states like West Virginia,
who think that,when
you talk about cutting carbon
emissions, you
mean that you're cutting their
jobs, that
energy costs are going to go up.
And to a lot of voters, that
just doesn't
seem like an exchange they want
to make.
I mean, that -- in some ways,
Trump has something
of mandate, doesn't he?
DAVID ROBERTS: I don't think so,
William.
A couple of things.
One is, not a lot of people know
this yet,
but renewable energy now employs
far more
people in the United States than
coal does,
certainly.
There's more jobs in the solar
industry alone
than there is in coal anymore.
So, in terms of job growth,
renewables are
a much more fertile source of
that than fossil
fuels.
Secondly, if you actually go
beneath the general
level and poll the public on
individual questions
like should we do something to
restrain carbon
emissions, should we tighten
regulations on
pollution, should we support
renewable energy,
support for those policies is
incredibly high
across the board, across
demographics, across
regions of the country.
If you're looking at individual
environmental
policies, public support is
enormous.
The problem is that there just
aren't that
many members of the public who
make those
issues their priority.
So I don't think that Trump's
win necessarily
tells us anything about what the
public thinks
about energy policy, so much as
it tells us
that the public just doesn't
think about energy
policy very much.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: With regards
to those coal
jobs, Trump made a repeated
pledge that he's
going to bring the coal industry
back.
Is that in the president's power
to do?
DAVID ROBERTS: Absolutely not.
I mean, the main thing that is
killing coal
right now in the U.S. is cheap
natural gas,
and that's market competition.
That's market competition that's
killing coal,
and that's going to be true no
matter what
Trump does.
And there's automation in the
coal industry,
so coal mining jobs have been
declining for
40 years now from their historic
highs and
will continue to decline as
automation increases.
So, most of the forces that are
adverse to
coal in the U.S., particularly
coal mining jobs, are outside
the president's
control and are definitely going
to continue
no matter what Trump does.
The interesting thing is whether
those people
that he made those promises to
remember those
promises and hold him
accountable.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Let's say
Trump does everything
that he promised to do, he
treats climate
change like a hoax, he walks
away from the
Paris accords, he dismantles the
EPA's regulations.
What does the U.S.' position
mean for the
global effort to cut carbon
emissions?
How much of this will impact
what the rest
of the planet is doing already?
DAVID ROBERTS: That is indeed
the $6 million
question, and no one quite knows
the answer
yet.
The news is not good.
A lot of the Paris agreement and
a lot of
international cooperation on
climate change
has been built on U.S.
leadership recently.
Obama's leadership helped bring
China into
the fold, to the table to do
this.
And then the prospect of the
U.S. and China
acting in concert helped bring
the rest of
the world to the table.
So, in a large sense, this
edifice is built
on top of U.S. leadership.
So, if you yank U.S. leadership
out from underneath
it, at the very least, I think
it's going
to be much more shaky and
vulnerable.
Whether it continues on as it
has been depends
on a lot of economic forces and
technological
innovation and a lot of things
that we can't
really predict.
But I think, at the very least,
action is
much more fragile and contingent
than it was
before this news.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
David Roberts
of Vox, thank you very much.
DAVID ROBERTS: Thank you,
William.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The so-called
EB-5 visa permits
foreign nationals to invest in
job-creating
programs in the U.S. in exchange
for permanent
residency.
But it's been scandal-plagued,
leading to
calls for reform.
As Congress gets set to tackle
some final
business before the end of this
year, will
the program finally get fixed?
Our economics Paul Solman takes
a look.
It's part of his weekly series,
Making Sense.
NOREEN IQBAL, Dubai: See, in
Dubai the thing
is, as long as you work in
Dubai, you can
live in Dubai.
But what if you leave the job?
We have to go back to Pakistan,
which we don't
want to.
PAUL SOLMAN: Noreen and Shehryar
Iqbal thought
they had a surefire way to avoid
a return
to their native Pakistan.
NOREEN IQBAL: It's not a safe
country.
SHEHRYAR IQBAL, Dubai: It's got
a lot of security
challenges.
PAUL SOLMAN: He's a flight
attendant for Dubai's
national airline.
She was, too, until they had
kids.
Their plan, sock away enough of
their salaries
to buy their way into America
via the EB-5
visa program, which grants green
cards, and
eventually U.S. citizenship, to
foreigners
and their immediate families.
Just invest half-a-million
dollars to create
at least 10 full-time jobs in
either a rural
project or an urban area with a
high unemployment
rate.
NOREEN IQBAL: We saved even the
allowance
money.
I can say that.
It's so embarrassing for us to
tell somebody
that allowance money is for you
to eat, but
we used to save that also.
PAUL SOLMAN: Oh, you mean the
money that the
airline would give you.
NOREEN IQBAL: The airline give
you on your
flight to have your food and
everything, we
would save that also.
PAUL SOLMAN: And put it away.
NOREEN IQBAL: Put it away.
PAUL SOLMAN: To that, they added
Shehryar's
small inheritance -- his parents
had died
in a car crash when he was a
teenager -- and
investments they'd made to grow
their nest
egg.
SHEHRYAR IQBAL: She bought a
little studio
in a nice upscale area.
It's called the Jumeirah Lake
Towers.
It was generating a very, very
good rental
income.
PAUL SOLMAN: Are you -- you're
starting to
remember it all?
That's what's going on?
NOREEN IQBAL: Sorry.
PAUL SOLMAN: No, no, it's OK.
NOREEN IQBAL: So, we rarely talk
about this,
because I start to...
PAUL SOLMAN: A lot of tears have
been shed
over the EB-5 project the Iqbals
chose to
invest in, one we first covered
last year
here on Making Sense.
The Jay Peak ski resort in
Northern Vermont,
coupled with plans for a hugely
ambitious
stem cell manufacturing facility
affiliated
with a South Korean biotech
firm.
But, in April, the Securities
and Exchange
Commission charged developers
Ariel Quiros
and Bill Stenger with 52 counts
of federal
securities violations, alleging
they'd misused
$200 million of EB-5 investor
funds, running
the ski resort project as a
giant Ponzi scheme,
and the stem cell project as a
total fraud.
The Iqbals, who put down their
money on stem
cells, have lost not just their
half-million
dollar investment, but another
$65,000 in
legal and administrative fees,
with not a
green card in sight.
We talked to them on their
recent visit to
the U.S. on tourist visas using
their free
flight passes.
Are you now wiped out?
SHEHRYAR IQBAL: Yes.
NOREEN IQBAL: All of the money,
it was just
squandered, you know?
PAUL SOLMAN: And you lost your
entire inheritance.
SHEHRYAR IQBAL: Yes.
And it hurts me, because my mom
and dad were
very young when they passed
away.
And it was my job to protect the
money that
they have left us.
And that -- it really breaks my
heart.
PAUL SOLMAN: Does it make you
think differently
about America?
SHEHRYAR IQBAL: To be honest,
unfortunately,
yes.
We have lived in countries which
are not regulated,
but we have never been cheated
on this scale.
We have never been cheated at
all, to be honest.
PAUL SOLMAN: The Iqbals feel
that America
is really letting them down.
MICHAEL GIBSON, EB-5 Investment
Adviser: The
United States is.
That the government, through its
agencies,
are not monitoring this activity
is really
disgraceful.
PAUL SOLMAN: Michael Gibson is
an independent
EB-5 investment adviser who says
he thoroughly
vets projects before
recommending them to
clients, documenting everything
on tape.
And you go around the country.
MICHAEL GIBSON: All over the
United States.
PAUL SOLMAN: Recording EB-5
projects.
MICHAEL GIBSON: Absolutely.
Been doing it since 2008.
PAUL SOLMAN: But only one in 10
projects,
he says, agree to let him in.
MICHAEL GIBSON: The biggest
problem is transparency.
The agency that's administering
the program
offers no disclosure regarding
any of the
investments.
So, if you're an investor and
you're asking
questions about how many
projects they have
developed, how much capital they
have raised,
what they have done with that
capital, how
many jobs have been created,
none of this
information is disclosed.
PAUL SOLMAN: And it's not just
700 investors
in the Vermont project who've
literally paid
the price.
In South Dakota, an EB-5-funded
beef packing
plant went belly up, taking the
funds of some
300 investors with it.
MICHAEL GIBSON: They assumed
that the state
was overseeing this investment,
and the fact
is that they were not.
SEN.
CHARLES GRASSLEY (R), Iowa:
There is no set
of sanctions for violations, no
recourse for
bad actors.
PAUL SOLMAN: Last year, six
bills were introduced
in Congress to reform the EB-5
program, increasing
scrutiny of the so-called
regional centers,
private firms that sponsor EB-5
developments.
None passed.
Why?
MICHAEL GIBSON: There are a few
regional centers
with very powerful connections
in Washington,
including their lobbyists.
They are concerned any reform
would impact
their ability to raise capital
for cities
such as New York and Los Angeles
and Miami.
PAUL SOLMAN: Right, says
Angelique Brunner,
who owns and operates five
regional centers.
But, without EB-5, she says,
many urban projects,
like this retail development in
Washington,
D.C., would never break ground.
ANGELIQUE BRUNNER, EB5 Capital:
We're an essential
piece of projects like this.
We work directly with
developers.
And we have seen firsthand the
challenges
that they experience in the
capital markets
when they're going to raise
capital.
And it's an important part of
the story to
encourage other capital players
to come to
the table in terms of banking
and other equity.
PAUL SOLMAN: "Oh, really?" says
Gibson.
Then what about all the
EB-5-funded projects
rising in Manhattan, amid
similar conventionally
financed projects, luxury condos
in Tribeca,
ritzy Midtown hotels and office
buildings?
And then there's the largest
EB-5 project
of them all, Hudson Yards on the
far West
Side.
It had no shortage of Americans
willing to
invest, says Gibson.
MICHAEL GIBSON: And many would
argue that,
in fact, they already had
capital lined up.
They just were pursuing EB-5
capital, as it
was lower-cost.
It was cheaper financing for
them.
PAUL SOLMAN: And that's it?
MICHAEL GIBSON: That's it.
PAUL SOLMAN: So, it's not
creating jobs then
at all.
MICHAEL GIBSON: They would have
created the
jobs anyway.
That's what many would argue.
This is simply a way for them to
save a point
or two on their financing.
PAUL SOLMAN: Scandals, fishy
financing, yet
lobbyists have kept Congress
from cleaning
things up, for the usual
reasons, says Gibson.
MICHAEL GIBSON: The developers
are very well-financed,
well-heeled.
They donate to the political
campaigns of
many of these politicians.
So if the developers can save
several million
dollars, they are going to
encourage their
politicians to have them --
allow them to
use the EB-5 capital for their
development.
It's self-interest.
PAUL SOLMAN: In the case of Jay
Peak, which
was part of a state-run regional
center, the
lobbying was done by Alex
MacLean, a former
assistant to Vermont's governor.
ALEX MACLEAN, Former Assistant
to Vermont
Governor: One of the amazing
things about
Vermont is that it's so small,
and the access
to the politicians is readily
available.
DONALD TRUMP (R),
President-Elect: Nobody
knows the system better than me.
PAUL SOLMAN: Now, no American
political story
would be complete these days
without Donald
Trump.
And, indeed, he figures in this
one.
Just this month, Trump Bay
Street, a 50-story
luxury apartment building,
opened in Jersey
City, New Jersey, built by a
company run by
Trump's son-in-law, Jared
Kushner, who raised
a quarter of the project's $200
million financing
from EB-5 investors in China.
DONALD TRUMP: Which is why I
alone can fix
it.
PAUL SOLMAN: But, locally and
federally, the
door between government and
lobbying keeps
revolving.
And, to Michael Gibson, the
stakes of closing
it for EB-5 projects are
substantial.
MICHAEL GIBSON: The issue is
that it is affecting
the credibility of the United
States, because
granting what is probably the
most cherished
document in the world, a U.S.
passport, and
path to eventual citizenship is
really in
the hands of developers, who at
times do scheme
and fraud to take advantage of
the investors.
PAUL SOLMAN: The Iqbals, their
dreams of immigration
to the U.S. dashed, still make
their home
in Dubai, at least for now.
For them, American credibility
is shot.
SHEHRYAR IQBAL: If someone would
come and
ask me, "I have got
half-a-million dollars
and I want to move to the U.S.,"
I would probably
say, don't do it.
PAUL SOLMAN: This is economics
correspondent
Paul Solman reporting for the
"PBS NewsHour."
HARI SREENIVASAN: In the week or
so since
the election, there has been
mounting criticism
of whether Web giants like
Facebook and Google
used enough discretion and
editorial responsibility
in screening out fake news
sites.
A new analysis by BuzzFeed found
that false
election stories from hoax sites
and hyperpartisan
blogs generated more engagement
than content
from real news sites during the
last three
months of the election.
Users shared false stories like
this one about
Pope Francis endorsing Donald
Trump, or Hillary
Clinton selling weapons to ISIS
hundreds of
thousands of times, even more
than real stories.
President Obama weighed in today
during his
trip to Germany.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
If we are not serious about
facts and what's
true and what's not, and
particularly in an
age of social media, where so
many people
are getting their information in
sound bites
and snippets off their phones,
if we can't
discriminate between serious
arguments and
propaganda, then we have
problems.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Craig
Silverman worked on
the analysis done by BuzzFeed,
and he joins
me now.
Craig, how do we know Facebook's
impact on
the electorate?
How did you research this?
CRAIG SILVERMAN, BuzzFeed: Well,
what we did
is looked for the biggest 20
hits in the last
three months before the election
from sites
that published fake news or
sites that had
published something false that
also went viral,
and then we looked at the total
number of
Facebook engagements for those.
And that's a number that
encompasses, the
comments, reactions and the
shares.
And we decided to compare those
to the top
20 real election news hits from
19 major news
organizations.
And what we ended up seeing,
which was quite
surprising, was, in those last
three months
of the election, compared to the
six months
before that, the engagement on
the top 20
fake stories was actually higher
than what
you saw for the real news.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And you found
that some
of these sites were really news
sites, but
still they had as much power, if
not more,
than, say, The New York Times or
The Washington
Post?
CRAIG SILVERMAN: That was one of
the really
surprising things to me.
I didn't expect fake news to get
more engagement
than real news overall, but to
see that the
leading fake news site getting
the most engagement
had only been registered months
before, and
its top four fake stories got
more Facebook
engagement than the top four
election stories
from The Washington Post, I
mean, that was
really surprising.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And you found
in some of
your investigations that some of
these are
sites that were built in
Macedonia for more
of a profit motive than a
political one.
CRAIG SILVERMAN: Yes.
A few weeks ago, we published a
story where
we had found well over 100 sites
focused on
U.S. politics being run out of
one small town
in the former Yugoslav republic
of Macedonia.
And when we looked at the
content that they
were publishing, they were
consistently pro-Trump.
And we also saw that they were
consistently
publishing things that weren't
true.
In fact, some of their biggest
hits before
Election Day were things that
weren't true.
And when we did this calculation
of the top
20 fake election hits, we did
find two Macedonian
sites there.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Mark
Zuckerberg said it's
kind of a crazy idea to think
that fake news
really tilted the election; 99.9
percent of
the stuff we publish is solid
and, in fact,
we have had a positive effect.
We actually got a lot of people
to register
to vote.
That probably is a much more
measurable impact
on the election.
CRAIG SILVERMAN: I agree that
that is more
measurable.
One of the problems that we have
right now
is that Facebook doesn't make a
lot of data
available publicly.
So the analysis that we did is
just one slice
of a lot of different
investigations that
I think people should be able to
do.
We don't know the impact of fake
news on the
election.
I don't think it's correct to
say that it
swayed things in favor of Trump.
I don't think it was a deciding
factor, but
it definitely had some kind of a
factor.
The fact that fake news was
going more viral
towards Election Day than
mainstream news
reporting is really surprising
and I think
something that we should be
concerned about.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Fake news has
been around
as long as the Internet.
What's the difference now?
CRAIG SILVERMAN: I would argue,
actually,
fake news predates the Internet
as well.
If you think about the early
newspapers, they
were often partisan newspapers
and they would
publish things that were fake.
The Internet came along, and
obviously anybody
can become a publisher.
It becomes more democratized.
And so, yes, you will have more
fake news.
But a really deciding factor is
Facebook,
where there are more than 1.7
billion people
around the world logging in
every month, where
stuff can really get a
tremendous velocity
very quickly and reach a huge
amount of people.
That's a really game-changing
factor.
We haven't seen fake news and
hoaxes get as
much exposure as they do now,
just because
of how big a platform Facebook
is.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Is there a
diminishing value
of what the source is for facts
today?
Because it seems, when I ask
someone, where
did you hear that, they say, oh,
I saw it
on my phone.
And if I press one further, they
say, oh,
it was on Facebook.
But they often don't say, well,
it was from
BuzzFeed, and Craig Silverman
wrote it.
CRAIG SILVERMAN: I think there
is a different
pattern of information
consumption now.
People sometimes talk about the
promiscuity
of consumers now, where, sure,
you might see
something that a friend has
shared on Facebook.
You might see something as a
link on Twitter.
Somebody might e-mail something
to you.
And while you may go to your
chosen sources
in the morning or at night,
you're also getting
stuff from other sources.
And I do think, for certain
people, they don't
necessarily take a step back and
say, OK,
where did this come from, what
is this Web
site?
We just sort of consume things
in an almost
passive way, and fake stuff can
slip into
that real stream of news a lot
easier.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Does this
create an echo
chamber?
The Wall Street Journal had a
red feed/blue
feed experiment, where who had
friends that
were perhaps on one side of the
aisle saw
news that was very similar and
self-affirming.
CRAIG SILVERMAN: There is
definitely an echo
chamber effect.
Some people call it a filter
bubble.
The reality is, humans do like
to consume
information that aligns with
their existing
beliefs.
So, when we read something that
goes along
with what we already think or
that we think
might be true, we are inclined
to believe
it.
We might also be inclined to
share it.
And what happens is, on a place
like Facebook,
where there are algorithms that
are deciding
what things to show us in news
feeds, the
more that we consume a certain
type of information,
the more the algorithms learn
that we like
that, and will serve us more of
that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Yes.
CRAIG SILVERMAN: And so it's
very easy for
us to end up only consuming
information from
one point of view, only
consuming information
from a certain slice of sources.
And I worry about sort of the
collapse of
that middle ground for not only
political
conversation, but for other
things as well.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And, finally,
what's Facebook,
what's Google doing about this?
CRAIG SILVERMAN: Right now, the
main thing
that's happened is, Google --
and then Facebook
followed suit -- have both
announced that
they will not allow fake news
sites, sites
that are publishing false
information, to
participate in their advertising
programs.
Now, the Google announcement is
probably a
little more significant, because
its advertising
program was used by a lot of
sites to earn
money.
And so, right now, what we have
is a little
bit of shutting off of the
financial motive
for this, which I think is
actually a pretty
powerful thing.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Craig Silverman
from BuzzFeed joining us
tonight, thank you.
CRAIG SILVERMAN: Thanks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now we go from
fake news on
social streams to the TV screen,
humor, politics,
and the life of a perpetual
outsider.
Jeffrey Brown talks with the
host of the late-night
"Daily Show," Trevor Noah, whose
new memoir
has just been published.
JEFFREY BROWN: It was the
morning after the
morning after, and, along with
the rest of
us, the producers and writers of
"The Daily
Show" were grappling with the
recent earthquake
in American politics.
There were serious exchanges
about the role
of protest.
TREVOR NOAH, Host, "The Daily
Show": If it
were Trump people who were in
the streets
doing the same thing, burning
effigies of
Hillary Clinton, it's like, come
on, guys,
really, in America, in
democracy?
JEFFREY BROWN: There were jokes
and laughter.
MAN: One guy had this huge sign
that was like,
"I'm Just Sad."
I was like, that's really what
it all is.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: Leading the
discussion was
the program's host, Trevor Noah.
TREVOR NOAH: That's where, as a
South African,
we share the same value in terms
of, the whole
point of democracy is that we
don't fight
about the decision.
It's a scary time, but I think
we have to
be careful to not brand either
side in any
discussion as a monolith.
It's a lot more nuanced than it
seems.
And a lot of the time, as
people, we're not
good at dealing with nuance.
It's easier to say black and
white, right
and wrong.
JEFFREY BROWN: Out with the old,
and in with
the new.
TREVOR NOAH: Do you realize
there are so many
things we don't know?
We don't even know what the J.
in Donald J.
Trump stands for.
(LAUGHTER)
TREVOR NOAH: A lot of people
don't know this,
but it actually stands for
Jesus.
Yes.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: And the
32-year-old Noah is
still the new guy here, taking
over last year
as the surprise pick...
TREVOR NOAH: I am a terrible
employee.
JEFFREY BROWN: ... to replace
Jon Stewart,
who after 16 years at the helm
was a national
cultural figure.
TREVOR NOAH: I was surprised
with everyone
else.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
TREVOR NOAH: It's not like I
wasn't surprised.
I was also like, wow, who is
that guy?
That is insane.
Who is that guy?
Only an idiot would take the job
after Jon
Stewart, but, luckily, I was
that idiot.
JEFFREY BROWN: It hasn't been
the easiest
transition.
The late-night field has become
more crowded,
and "The Daily Show" numbers
have fallen.
But with the help of a staff of
more than
100, Noah has brought a very
particular perspective,
one he thinks may be especially
useful now.
TREVOR NOAH: I come from a world
where I have
always practiced empathizing and
putting myself
in somebody else's mind, which
is very difficult
to do.
But I truly believe that most
people are doing
what they believe is right from
their point
of view.
When you think of it from
another person's
point of view and you think of
them being
right from their point of view,
it then gives
you a greater insight into not
only why they
think the way they do, but maybe
how to speak
to them or even how to argue
against those
points.
JEFFREY BROWN: Trevor Noah was
born in Johannesburg,
South Africa, in the last years
of apartheid,
a time when a child like
himself, son of a
black South African woman and a
white Swiss
father, was, literally, as the
title of his
new memoir puts it, born a
crime.
TREVOR NOAH: I existed in a
space where there
was no one like me most of my
life.
I never met a child who had
parents who were
different races.
I grew up either in a black
environment, or
I got to visit a white
environment.
JEFFREY BROWN: Noah was raised
by his mother,
who was jailed several times for
breaking
apartheid era laws, and he spent
much of his
earliest life indoors, to hide
him from a
government that could take him
away and imprison
her.
TREVOR NOAH: I lived as an
outsider, but,
at the same time, one of the
biggest benefits
is, you never see yourself as
being the most
important thing, because the
world is never
yours.
So, what you have to do is, you
have to find
your place in other people's
worlds.
JEFFREY BROWN: And how do you do
that?
You use this word chameleon,
right?
TREVOR NOAH: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: That's how you
adapted.
TREVOR NOAH: That's what you do,
and you do
that by listening, you know?
Essentially, that's what a
chameleon is doing,
for all intents and purposes.
It's listening to its
environment and adapting
accordingly.
If the chameleon's not aware of
the color
of the leaf that it's on, then
how will it
know what color to turn to?
JEFFREY BROWN: In the book, Noah
tells of
his mother having to act as
though she was
the black maid to her
light-skinned child,
and of his father running away
from him as
if they were not related.
Did you realize what was
happening at the
time?
TREVOR NOAH: No, I didn't.
And, thankfully, I didn't.
My parents were really good at
insulating
me from the reality of the world
that I was
in.
My dad, to me, wasn't running
away from me.
He was just running with me.
My mom was playing.
My dad was playing.
I was playing.
JEFFREY BROWN: But there was a
point where
you realized that that wasn't
play.
TREVOR NOAH: Yes.
But, I mean, by the time I did,
the country
was changing so much.
And I'm lucky in that -- and I
never take
that away.
I never discount the fact that I
was extremely
lucky, because, when I started
to come of
age, when I was 6 years old, the
laws of apartheid
were officially abolished.
When I was 10 years old, we had
our first
democratic election.
That was the greatest gift for
me, is that
I got to live on all sides.
Some who have only lived through
the pain,
even when the country changed,
could only
feel the pain.
Some who exist beyond that don't
feel a connection
to a previous world.
JEFFREY BROWN: He would become a
major star
in his homeland as a stand-up
comedian and
hosting his own late-night show.
He began making guest
appearances on American
shows.
JON STEWART, Host, "The Daily
Show With Jon
Stewart": Trevor!
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JEFFREY BROWN: And, in 2014,
joined "The Daily
Show With Jon Stewart" as a
contributor.
Humor, he says, was and is a way
to process
the world.
TREVOR NOAH: No matter how poor
you are, no
matter how much pain you're in,
laughter is
something you always have.
It's the anesthetic of the mind,
I feel, because,
no matter what you're going
through, if you
laugh just for a moment, there's
a moment
of respite.
JEFFREY BROWN: What now?
Jokes, for sure.
TREVOR NOAH: Instead, we got
someone who walks
around the White House like a
toddler at a
space museum.
What's this?
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: But Noah told me
he'd quickly
realized the demand from "The
Daily Show"
audience for more than that.
And while he speaks of trying to
see all sides
of a picture, he's also now
drawing a harsh
analogy to his homeland.
TREVOR NOAH: Remember, when I
first started
hosting "The Daily Show," I said
Donald Trump
reminds me of an African
dictator.
And we had the evidence to back
it up.
MAN: I'm the one who has got the
money.
DONALD TRUMP (R),
President-Elect: I made
a tremendous amount of money.
MAN: My people have great praise
for me.
DONALD TRUMP: People love me.
Everybody loves me.
TREVOR NOAH: The world I come
from is a world
of people who grab power off the
backs of
those who are disenfranchised or
feel like
they have been left behind and
undereducated.
I have come from a world where
the person
who is uneducated or the person
who is unqualified
can become the leader who takes
everything.
I come from a world where they
use hateful
rhetoric to try and rise up the
masses and
get them behind them.
I come from that world.
And that world doesn't make
sense here, and
yet now it does.
Welcome to "The Daily Show."
I am Trevor Noah!
JEFFREY BROWN: From Comedy
Central in New
York City, I'm Jeffrey Brown for
the "PBS
NewsHour."
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now to another
episode of
Brief But Spectacular, where we
ask interesting
people to describe their
passions.
Tonight, we hear from Bob
Mankoff, cartoon
editor for "The New Yorker"
magazine since
1997.
He explains the humor of
cartoons.
BOB MANKOFF, Cartoon Editor,
"The New Yorker":
Every once in a while, we run a
joke that
very few people get, and I think
that's the
hallmark of "The New Yorker."
We don't actually do it to annoy
people.
We spend an extraordinary amount
of time selecting,
going through and editing the
cartoons that
you end up finding not funny.
(LAUGHTER)
BOB MANKOFF: Part of what is
wonderful about
cartoons is, they're a little
stupid, and
they connect us with the
stupidity of our
own consciousness in life.
We are ribbing ourselves, our
own pretensions,
our own middle class.
And in doing that, of course, we
become connoisseurs
of unhappiness.
Cartoonists' relationship to
rejection depends
on the cartoonist.
An amateur loves everything they
do and think
everything is perfect.
A professional really
understands that, in
the end, somebody else has to
judge their
work.
Often something that comes out
of your own
real-life experience, you don't
directly use.
You modify it within the form.
I was on the phone and someone
was brushing
me off.
So I just said to them, how
about never?
Is never good for you?
Then I tweaked it to make it
into a cartoon.
That has the syntax of
politeness, and yet
the message is rude.
And that duality is really the
essence of
humor, that type of surprise.
One that has this deep pathos of
how life
is, is Roz Chast.
It's a man looking at the
obituary and says,
"Three years older than you, two
years younger
than you, your age right on the
dot."
There's one I always show,
Michael Crawford,
French army knife with all
corkscrews, the
perfect cognitive cartoon.
Bruce Eric Kaplan is just a
master of a single
line.
These two mothers and they have
their children
and one is saying to the other,
"They grow
up so slow."
One of the functions is coping.
You can whistle past the
graveyard, but I
think you're better off if you
laugh.
After 9/11, everybody said irony
is dead,
everything has changed, we're
all going to
be great and good.
The Bruce Eric Kaplan cartoon
came just a
couple of months after 9/11.
One woman is saying to another,
"It's hard,
but, slowly, I'm getting back to
hating everyone."
You just need a little something
to say, well,
we're living again, life is
going to go on,
and, if life is going to go on,
humor is going
to go on.
I'm Bob Mankoff, and this is my
Brief But
Spectacular take on cartoons.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Sometimes, you
need a good
reason to laugh.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We do.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You can watch
additional
Brief But Spectacular episodes
on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour/Brief.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And on the
"NewsHour" online
right now: A lawyer and
professor who specializes
in public interest law says he
was upset and
not sure what to say after the
election, and
yet this past week has been the
most rewarding
of his teaching career.
You can read more of his
thoughts on our Web
site.
And we welcome more of your
tributes and condolences
for our colleague, Gwen Ifill,
who died on
Monday.
Submit them online, or call
703-594-6727,
to share your thoughts and
memories.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And that's the
"NewsHour"
for tonight.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening
with David Brooks and Ruth
Marcus.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.
P